Layer 2 clean up - added scaling page (#2785)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/developers/docs/scaling/index.md

---
title: Scaling
description: An introduction to the different scaling options currently being developed by the Ethereum community.
lang: en
sidebar: true
incomplete: true
---

## Scaling Overview {#scaling-overview}

> The scalability of a blockchain is measured in transactions per second. On the Ethereum blockchain network congestion leads to slower transactions and nonviable gas prices. Increasing the network capacity (transactions per second) is fundamental to the meaningful and mass adoption of Ethereum. Conceptually scaling can be categorised as either on-chain scaling or off-chain scaling.

Reviewer: Scalability isn't strictly just TPS. It can relate to node size/work too. Sharding allows scaling because nodes working on shard A only need to validate shard A not the entire network. 

Our eth2 pages dig into this. We should be wary of how we define scalability.

Author: Cheers for the feedback, I'll dig into this more over the weekend.

---
title: Scaling
description: An introduction to the different scaling options currently being developed by the Ethereum community.
lang: en
sidebar: true

> incomplete: true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I think we can mark this page as "complete". It's pretty well fleshed out. I'm good with the subpages being "incomplete".

---

## Scaling Overview {#scaling-overview}

> As the number of people using Ethereum has grown, the blockchain in its native form has reached certain capacity limitations. This has driven up the cost of using the network, creating the need for "scaling solutions." There are multiple solutions being researched, tested and implemented that take different approaches to achieving similar goals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the number of people using Ethereum has grown, the blockchain has reached certain capacity limitations. This has driven up the cost of using the network, creating the need for "scaling solutions." There are multiple solutions being researched, tested and implemented that take different approaches to achieve similar goals.
```

Reviewer 2: Suggestion to remove "in its native form" - not really sure what that means but feel free to clarify.

The main goal of scalability is to increase transaction speed (faster finality), and transaction throughput (high transactions per second), without sacrificing decentralization or security (more on [Eth2 vision](/eth2/vision/)). On the layer 1 Ethereum blockchain, high demand leads to slower transactions and nonviable gas prices. Increasing the network capacity in terms of speed and throughput is fundamental to the meaningful and mass adoption of Ethereum. 

While speed and throughput are important, it is essential that scaling solutions enabling these goals remain decentralized and secure. Keeping the barrier to entry low for node operators is critical in preventing a progression towards centralized and insecure computing power.

Conceptually we first categorize scaling as either on-chain scaling or off-chain scaling.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

You should have a good understanding of all the foundational topics. Implementing scaling solutions is advanced as the technology is less battle-tested, and continues to be researched and developed.

## On-Chain Scaling {#on-chain-scaling}

> This method of scaling requires changes to the existing layer 1 [mainnet](/glossary/#mainnet). Sharding is currently the main focus for this method of scaling.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This method of scaling requires changes to the existing Ethereum protocol (layer 1 [mainnet](/glossary/#mainnet)). Sharding is currently the main focus for this method of scaling.
```

> ### Sharding {#sharding}

Reviewer 2: Is sharding the only Eth2 upgrade that improves scaling? Doesn't PoS improve scalability, if anything by providing instant finality on txs/blocks?

Sharding is the process of splitting a database horizontally to spread the load. In an Ethereum context, sharding will reduce network congestion and increase transactions per second by creating new chains, known as “shards.” This will also lighten the load for each validator who will no longer be required to process the entirety of all transactions across the network.

Learn more about [sharding](/eth2/shard-chains/).

## Off-Chain Scaling {#off-chain-scaling}

> Off-chain solutions are designed separate from layer 1 mainnet. Some solutions, known as "layer 2" solutions, derive their security directly from layer 1 Ethereum consensus, such as rollups or channels. Other solutions involve the creation of new chains in various forms that derive their security separately from mainnet, such as [sidechains](#sidechains) or [plasma](#plasma) chains. These solutions communicate with mainnet, but derive their security differently to obtain a variety of goals.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Off-chain solutions are implemented separately from layer 1 mainnet - they require no changes to the existing Ethereum protocol. Some solutions, known as "layer 2" solutions, derive their security directly from layer 1 Ethereum consensus, such as [rollups](/docs/scaling/layer-2/) or [state channels](/docs/scaling/channels/). Other solutions involve the creation of new chains in various forms that derive their security separately from mainnet, such as [sidechains](#sidechains) or [plasma](#plasma) chains. These solutions communicate with mainnet, but derive their security differently to obtain a variety of goals.
```

A specific layer 2 instance may be open and shared by many applications, or may be deployed by one company and dedicated to supporting only their application.

#### Rollups {#rollups}

Rollups perform transaction execution outside layer 1 and then the data is posted to layer 1 where consensus is reached. As transaction data is included in layer 1 blocks, this allows rollups to be secured by native Ethereum security.

- [ZK rollups](/developers/docs/scaling/layer-2/#zk-rollups)
- [Optimistic rollups](/developers/docs/scaling/layer-2/#optimistic-rollups)

Learn more about [rollups](/developers/docs/scaling/layer-2/).

> #### Channels {#channels}

Reviewer 2: Should we go with "channels" or "state channels"? I feel like "state channels" is more descriptive.

> Channels utilize multisig contracts to enable participants to transact quickly and freely off-chain, then settle finality with mainnet. This minimizing network congestion, fees and delays. The two types of channels are currently state channels, and payment channels.

Reviewer 2: > The two types of channels are currently state channels, and payment channels.

I'd argue payment channels are merely a type/subset of state channel (i.e. one dealing with balances).
